---
title: Chinese Post Title
date: 2023-03-01T10:07:35Z
draft: true
---

> Title Ideas
> 270 days of Learning Chinese with Anki.

> Rough Structure
 >- Introduction
 >- What did I already know? 
     >- How I started
         >- Basic grammar
         >- Remembering the Simplified Hanzi arc
         >- Bits here and there
     >- What basis did this give me?
         >- Decent understanding of the basic grammar, some basic phrases
         >- Good understanding of how to write, remembering individual characters, how to memorise, intro to Anki.
 >- The plan is simple.
     >- What did I plan to do in my current arc?
     >- First stage, a giant premade Anki deck + random extra words, try out random texting.
     >- Second stage, reading, reading, and more reading.
     >- Third stage, sentence mining.
 >- Where am I now?
     >- Pretty good foundations in reading and typing! Can understand written text to a HSK4-5ish level, depending on topic.
     >- Better listening and speaking skills, however definitely not enough to be conversational.
     >- Lack of confidence speaking, a lot of nerves there. Need to get over it!
 >- What's next?
     >- A much higher emphasis on listening. Starting to sentence mine is good, but the volume needs to be FAR greater (1-2 hours a day at least)
     >- Literally going to Taiwan. My listening and speaking is not at a level I predicted I would be at, but I think visiting another country and give me some higher inspiration to go for such a heavy emphasis on listening and speaking, as I am for reading.
 >- Conclusion

About thirteen years ago, for absolutely no reason, Alex tried learning
Japanese. This lasted about a week, then unceremoniously stopped.

About five years ago, because Alex thought the alphabet was cool, Alex tried
learning Korean. He learnt the alphabet, then realised he (A) knew no Korean
people (B) never consumed any media in Korean.

Then about four years ago, also for no reason, Alex tried learning Chinese.
Which began this on-and-off adventure into language learning I've been having
since then.

<!-- TODO: I want this part to be good but can't express myself well now -->
Although I market myself as a tech person, I do like talking about my other
hobbies. I feel exploring areas you are totally unfamiliar with is quite a good
thing to do. For example, I've always been interested in computers, so some
things feel almost like second-nature to me. On the other hand, language
education in the UK is extremely lackluster so I had next to no experience
here. Starting from nothing is a huge struggle but is also an amazingly rich
experience. I am unsure how to eloquently explain this, but you just touch
areas of knowledge that you would never if you had stuck in more familiar
areas. Even if your area is very deep and rich and you could never really
master it all, jumping to an entirely different thing is something I can't
recommend enough. I've learnt so much about memory, habits, consistency,
language (amazing) to name a few, that have fed directly back into other facets
of life. I can't really stress this enough, in retrospect I think I would have
even just enjoyed studying languages formally during undergraduate. I just
hadn't explored that path when I was making university decisions.

It has been so impactful on my early adult life, that I feel the need to write
about it. However, the path I took (and probably still taking) is far from the
ideal, optimal, or efficient path. I made a lot of pretty huge mistakes along
the way that have delayed me. Hence, despite studying on-and-off so long, I am
really nowhere near fluent or even conversational. I had huge periods of
intense study that were fundamentally flawed, along with periods of no work.
This is a natural consequence of embracing the fool's journey in an unfamiliar
area, however the result is finding a nice method that seemingly works for me.
This is the method I have been following for the past 300 days or so and
reached levels I hadn't attained previously. However, when reading about what I do now, please keep in mind the years of floundering about giving me an unstable foundation - but a foundation nonetheless.

This post is split up into parts. First, I will cover the foundations I learnt and why it didn't really work out for me. Next, I will cover what my current method is that began roughly 300 days ago. After that, I will analyse how the method has faired. Finally, I will discuss where I am going next to reach my ultimate goals.

I've played around with so many different methods which I will reference where
my memory serves me. However, I am most influenced by
[Livakivi](https://www.youtube.com/c/livakivi), my favourite Youtuber who
simply shares what he has been learning in a very captivating way, be it art,
technology, renovating a Soviet-era store, or most famously: Japanese language
learning. If you are interested in language learning - or learning in general - all his content is very good. His attitude embodies what I want to discuss here: just starting, keeping at it, and finding out what works for you.

Without further ado.
